## Bousfield Localization

The theory of Bousfield localizations will allow us to decompose and join stable categories. To proceed we will need a few definitions about categories. A category $\mathcal{C}$ is $\kappa$-filtered if every map from a $\kappa$ sized diagram/category to $\mathcal{C}$ can be extended to a map from its cone. An object is $\kappa$-compact if mapping from the object preserves $\kappa$-filtered colimits. On spaces, $\kappa$-filtered colimits commutes with $\kappa$ limits. We can check this on homotopy groups. A category is accessible if it is generated by $\kappa$-filtered colimits of $\kappa$-compact objects and the $kappa$-compact objects form a small category. $\kappa$-filtered colimits commutes with $\kappa$ limits in such categories. A category is presentable if it accessible and cocomplete (has all colimits). By standard arguments, a presentable category is equivalent to the $\kappa$-Ind category of its $\kappa$-compact objects. This allows the proof of the representable functor theorem (every limit preserving functor is representable by using the presheaf on the compact objects as an object in the actual category). This will then imply the adjoint functor theorem (existence of right adjoint for colimit preserving functor)(See section 5.5 in Higher Topos Theory). An accessible functor between presentable categories is one which preserve $\kappa$-filtered colimits and $\kappa$-compact objects). Such a functor which is also limit preserving will admit a left adjoint.

For the rest of this post assume every category is presentable and stable. Let $G_1 : \mathcal{A} \to \mathcal{B}$ be colimit preserving which preserves compact objects. We have from the last paragraph such a functor admits a left adjoint. In fact, such a functor decomposes into a quotient map and an inclusion map, each of which is colimit preserving. So let's focus on a subcategory with inclusion $G_1$. We can consider the fibres of the maps $X \to G_1F_1X$. 
