## Category Theory

This post is the second post in a series whose purpose is to talk about spectra from a modern point of view. In this post we will define what a category is. I will use the word category to mean what is commonly referred to as $(\infty,1)$ categories and as sets are for me discrete spaces, normal categories will be for me, categories with discrete mapping spaces. 

The approach to category theory will be more operadic. The preference of this approach for me is that one, there will be no straightening-unstraightening arguments, and two, it will generalize readily to other enriched categories.

To define a category we proceed as in normal category theory. We start with a collection (by this I always mean some type; there is no homotopy information here) of objects. Given any two objects $x$ and $y$, we will have a space of maps $\mathrm{Hom}(x,y)$. We will have two types of functions. Identity functions and composition functions. The starting point is as follows. For any object $x$, there should be a distinguished $0$-cell in the space $\mathrm{Hom}(x,x)$. Further, there should be a composition function, which will be a function
$$\mathrm{Hom}(y,z) \times \mathrm{Hom}(x,y) \to \mathrm{Hom}(x,z)$$

What we will need to add to this is as follows. First the identity morphism must actually act as identity. This means
that there is a map $\mathrm{Hom}(x,y) \times I \to \mathrm{Hom}(x,y)$ which is a homotopy from the morphism to the morphism right composed with the identity map. Then of course we also have the one for left composition. Secondly, we need to add a system of associativity functions. Specifically, for every level $k$, there is a collection of ways to multiply $k$ things together. For example $(x((yz)w))$ is a way to multiply $4$ things together. There will also be between these vertices, cells/simplices because of the associativity functions of lower levels. We will require a cell connecting them together. In what sense do we want this cell? For any collection of $k$ $0$-cells in the $\mathrm{Hom}$ spaces, we will need a cell connecting everything together. But there must also be cells corresponding to higher cells in the $\mathrm{Hom}$ spaces. So what we really need is a map from the product of the $k$ $\mathrm{Hom}$ spaces and the simplex with number of simplices equal to the number of binary trees (with labelled leaves) of $k$ leaves. This generalized associativity is what we need for higher categories done the naive way too.

The previous paragraph gives generalized associativity. What we also need is the usual commutativity of diagrams with the identity map. This means that one, the space of all compositions of the identity together with the map which demonstrates the fact the identity maps acts as identity should be contractible. Further, we need to add the fact that $xy \to (x1)y \to x(1y) \to xy$ is contracted. I'm not asserting here that the approach/construction I give here is minimal, but I believe it is enough/sufficient.
