## Internal Model of Spectra

As promised, in our third post, we will give a much needed internal model of spectra. Before we do that, let us discuss what we know so far. We have defined an internal model of spaces and we have defined what a category is. We will state some facts and sketch very briefly why they are true. First, we have that there is a category of spaces. The $\mathrm{Hom}$ spaces are the mapping spaces in simplicial sets extended to our setting (here I believe we need joinable spaces, but I'm not too sure). More precisely, the $0$-cells of the mapping space is simply the collection of maps from the left space to the right space, as in maps from $k$-cells to $k$-cells compatible with boundaries and with the appropriate identifications (coherent homotopies) of degeneracy maps. The $1$-cells will be homotopies and $2$-cells will be higher homotopies. It is left to the reader to verify this gives a category. With this category defined, there is almost no obstruction to generalizing almost all of ordinary category theory to this new setting. We define functors to be maps of objects and morphisms with composition and identity maps preserved up to coherent homotopies. There is a $\mathrm{Hom}$ functor to Spaces for any category. This will give a fully faithful (Hom space homotopy equivalent) functor embedding into presheaves. And so on and so on.

Instead of developing all of category theory now, I would like to instead begin talking about the main subject of this series--Spectra. Spectra is classically motivated by spaces stablized under suspension or as representing cohomology theories. For us, the importance of spectra is that by stabilizing spaces, we are miraculously left with a homotopy coherent generalization of abelian groups (not the simplest one). This will allow us to do ring theory up to homotopy coherence.

We begin with a (too) naive idea. We will try to weaken the definition of group/abelian group homotopically. Instead of having a set at the start, we will begin with a space and add the obvious axioms of it being a homotopy group or abelian group. As we will not make too much use of this idea, let us simply say this can be done and what we recover is $A_{\infty}$ and $E_{\infty}$ spaces. However, for example for applications into homological algebra and derived categories, we will need our category to be instead stable under suspension (for more details see next post). There are some recognition principles equating such spaces as spectra with particular properties. I will not cover them.

Now let's present the simple construction of spectra as promised. In here, by the necessity of spectra being closed under suspension, we will have at each level a collection of $\infty$-simplices (because there cannot be a distinction between what cells are allowed at different levels). What is an $\infty$-simplex? It is a simplex which behaves as if it had a countable infinity of vertices, though all but finitely many is the base point, which occurs as a canonical cell at every level. Alternatively, it is constructed by a finite simplex and is a sort of colimit over finite simplices. We start with a base point at every level with degeneracy maps and boundaries uniquely determined. Then we add a collection of simplices at each level which have no boundary. Now we have to add simplicies at each level with one one nontrivial boundary. And so on, and so on. As in spaces, we have functions which tell us how many simplices there are with specified boundaries. We are given degeneracy maps and permutation maps, all of which commutes up to coherent homotopy. All this is not tricky to define. The perhaps non-obvious part is to define the joining operation. But this we can accomplish by the same condition as in spaces, namely Kan's horn filling criterion. 
