## More on Spectra

Last time, we discussed the theory of stable categories. Instead of considering categories enriched over spaces, we can also enrich over spectra (or connective spectra). Over such categories, we can still talk about stable categories just as before. To make sense of all this, we first need to talk about the structure of spectra.

We define a symmetric monoidal category as follows. We require that we have cells contracting the collection of objects multiplied in different orders, whose boundaries give us the commutativity cells for a smaller number of objects. We omit the details.

On spectra, we have two operations. One is the direct sum operation. This will, in our model, simply be taking the product of the cells of each level. That this gives the categorical product is easy to see. It is therefore commutative up to homotopy. Furthermore, we have the smash product or tensor product. This is more difficult to construct, we can construct it using the adjoint between (joinable) spectra and unjoinable spectra (sequence of $\infty$-cells). This adjunction will give us the ability to define tensor product just as usual algebra. This tensor product is symmetric monoidal and will allow us to talk about categories enriched over spectra (called spectral categories). In fact, spectra forms a symmetric monoidal category enriched over spectra. A $E_{infty}$ ring is a $E_{\infty}$ algebra over this category. We omit the details, but basically we want homotopy associative multiplication relative to the tensor product of spectra.

The adjunction/free spectra functor from unjoinable spectra turns direct sums of spectra (which we can think of as unjoinable spectra) into tensor products. Therefore, the free spectra on one object in degree $0$ is a $E_{\infty}$ algebra, and is called the sphere spectrum. It is connective (it only has positive homotopy groups), and its homotopy groups are the stable homotopy groups of spheres. The higher cells just come from degeneracies, and we can think of there being a copy of $\mathbb{Z}$ in degree $0$. The Eilenberg-Maclane spectrum of an abelian group, $HG$, is by having the elements in degree $0$, and adding cells above to enforce the addition and to eliminate higher homotopies. Any commutative ring will give rise to a $E_{\infty}$ ring. The spectrum $H\mathbb{Z}$ is given by eliminating the higher homotopies of the sphere spectrum. Finally, we can see that we have a stable symmetric monoidal spectral category of modules over any $E_{\infty}$ ring $R$, called $\mathrm{Mod}(R)$.

Finally we will finish this story by describing a tensor operation. Suppose our categories are cocomplete. Then, we can tensor a space $P$ with an object $X$. Namely, we have the adjunction 
\begin{equation*}
\mathrm{Hom}(P \otimes X,Y) \cong \mathrm{Hom}(P,\mathrm{Hom}(X,Y))
\end{equation*}
We additionally have the tensoring of a spectra and an object in a category enriched over spectra. We define as before and we can construct either by building the space/spectra $P$ from points. If the space/spectra has structure, we can add structure to objects in our category. The simple example of $S^1$ leads to the construction of topological Hochschild homology, or THH.
