## Stable Categories

For this post we will describe a simple yet extremely important property of the category of spectra, namely the fact that it is an example of a stable infinity category. First we will need some simple category theory. For any two categories $\mathcal{C}$ and $\mathcal{C'}$, the functor category is a category where the $0$-cells are functors as we discussed before. Between two functors, we have a space of natural transformations. There are some cardinality issues, which we will punt to our type theory having universes. (Additionally I would like to note at this point that we also assume some version of choice in our type theory) Suppressing details, we can define such a category where the input category is small ($\mathrm{Fun}(\mathcal{C},\mathcal{C'})$). (Note here that the collections of categories is a $2$-category. We can define $n$-categories as categories enriched over $(n-1)$-categories fairly easily using a similar definition to our definition of categories)

It is clear how to define initial and final objects, namely just by asking for the relevant $\mathrm{Hom}$ space to be contractible. To define (homotopy, which is assumed because nothing else could make sense) limits and colimits, we ask for the final or initial object of the category of cones with a fixed base (being the diagram we want to find the limit/colimit of). As in normal category theory, if we have all limits of a particular form, then we have an adjunction between the functor category and the original category. A stable category is an additive category with fibres and cofibre such that every fibre sequence is a cofibre sequence. Let's define what this means. A pointed category is a category with a zero object--which is both initial and final, and direct sums (which are both products and coproducts). The fibre of a map $f:a \to b$ is the map $g$ in the following pullback diagram. In this case we say 
$$z \xrightarrow{g} a \xrightarrow{f} b$$
is a fibre sequence.

$$\require{AMScd}
\begin{CD}
z @>{g}>> a;\\
@VVV @V{f}VV \\
0 @>>> b;
\end{CD}$$

The cofibre (sequence) is just the dual (Duality in category theory in the homotopy coherent situation is completely analogous to the duality in normal category theory). 

We can define suspension as the pushout of two maps to the zero object. It's not hard to see this must be the suspension. I was at first confused why this doesn't always give the point. As an example, the square with corner a point does not admit a map to the square with corner $S^1$ which is the suspension of $S^0$. The loop spaces is the dual construction. For the next part, we will show some properties that stable categories have which makes them so nice.

Every limit can be generated with equalizers and products, much as in discrete category theory. Just as in discrete category theory, the existence of a final object and pullbacks gives a construction for equalizers and final products. Hence, stable categories have all finite limits and colimits if we can construct pullbacks using fibres, the zero object, and direct sums. But this can be done as in discrete category theory. These facts also show that preserves fibres/cofibres and the zero object is equivalent to being left/right exact for functors between stable categories.

An important property of stable categories is that suspension is an equivalence (by duality this means that looping is also equivalence). To show this, it is clear by expanding definition that the two functors are adjoint. The identity map on $\Sigma X$ corresponds to a canonical automorphism of the zero map from $X$ to $\Sigma X$. This clearly gives a map from $X$ to $\Omega \Sigma X$. To show this is an isomorphism, we may as well prove the stronger result that pushouts squares are the same as pullback squares. To do this, first we observe that functor categories valued in a stable category is stable. Further, we know that the functor category from the the left/right corner embeds in the functor category of squares. To show that the two categories are equal, first we know that the functor is exact, because it preserves limits/colimits. We can show that pullback squares are pushout squares by showing that pullback squares are limits of trivial pullback swuares where one leg is an isomorphism. Therefore, as trivial pullback squares are also pushout squares, we have that two claseses of objects are equivalent. By the way, all of this section is in the first chapter of Higher Algebra. One last thing to say is that in a long fibre sequence, shifting by 3 is suspension. This is simply because combining pushout squares gives pushout squares. Finally let us note that stable categories are naturally enriched over infinite loop spaces and that their discretization will give a triangulated category.

We would like to join stable categories. To proceed we will need a few definitions about categories. A category $\mathcal{C}$ is $\kappa$-filtered if every map from a $\kappa$ sized diagram/category to $\mathcal{C}$ can be extended to a map from its cone. An object is $\kappa$-compact if mapping from the object preserves $\kappa$-filtered colimits. On spaces, $\kappa$-filtered colimits commutes with $\kappa$ limits. We can check this on homotopy groups. A category is accessible if it is generated by $\kappa$-filtered colimits of $\kappa$-compact objects and the $\kappa$-compact objects form a small category. $\kappa$-filtered colimits commutes with $\kappa$ limits in such categories. A category is presentable if it accessible and cocomplete (has all colimits). By standard arguments, a presentable category is equivalent to the $\kappa$-Ind category of its $\kappa$-compact objects. This allows the proof of the representable functor theorem (every limit preserving functor is representable by using the presheaf on the compact objects as an object in the actual category). This will then imply the adjoint functor theorem (existence of right adjoint for colimit preserving functor)(See section 5.5 in Higher Topos Theory). An accessible functor between presentable categories is one which preserve $\kappa$-filtered colimits and $\kappa$-compact objects). An accessible functor which is also limit preserving will admit a left adjoint.

Suppose $A$ is a presentable stable full subcategory of $C$ for which the inclusion is colimit preserving (cocontinuous). Let $F$ be the inclusion, then it has a right adjoint $G$. We have $FGX \to X$ has cofibre $LX$. Now, using the structure of the stable category, we can say that $\mathrm{Hom}(FP,LY)$ is the fibre of the map $$\mathrm{Hom}(FP,FGY[1]) \to \mathrm{Hom}(FP,Y[1])$$ which is simply zero. So $LX$ lands inside the full stable subcategory generated by the objects right orthogonal to $A$. We can identify this subcategory with $C/A$, the quotient stable category. It's easy to see that $LX$ is also a projection to a full stable subcategory. This process is Bousfield localization.

The collection of presentable monoidal stable category and colimit preserving monoidal functors is enriched over stable categories. This allows gluing of stable categories which will allow us to gluing of rings, therefore allowing us to do scheme theory in this context (using the ideas of the previous paragraph). For example, Grothendieck duality can be done in this context.

In Cartesian closed stable categories, we can always define cohomology and homology with the unit object. This acquires additional structures if the object does. For example, spaces in spectra are cocommutative comonoids, so the cohomology has a ring structure.
